

Random Forest Algorithm
A powerful tree learning technique inMachine Learning.

Random Forest Algorithm
•Random Forest is a popular machine learning algorithm that 
belongs to the supervised learning technique. 
•It can be used for both Classification and Regression problems 
in ML. 
•It is based on the concept of ensemble learning, which is a 
process of combining multiple classifiers to solve a complex 
problem and to improve the performance of the model.

Random Forest Algorithm
•Random Forest  works by creating a number of Decision Trees 
during the training phase. 
•Each tree is constructed using a random subset of the data set to 
measure a random subset of features in each partition. 
• This randomness introduces variability among individual trees, 
reducing the risk of overfitting and improving overall prediction 
performance. 

Random Forest Algorithm
• In prediction phase, the algorithm aggregates the results of all trees, 
either by voting (for classification tasks) or by averaging (for regression 
tasks). 
• 
This collaborative decision-
making process, supported by 
multiple trees with their 
insights, provides an example 
stable and precise results

What are Ensemble Learning models?
•In ensemble learning, different models, often of the same type or different 
types, team up to enhance predictive performance. 
•Ensemble learning models work just like a group of diverse experts teaming up 
to make decisions
•It’s all about leveraging the collective wisdom of the group to overcome 
individual limitations and make more informed decisions in various machine 
learning tasks. 
•Some popular ensemble models include-XGBoost,AdaBoost,LightGBM, 
Random Forest,Bagging,Votingetc.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Random Forest works in two-phases
1.create the random forest by combining N decision tree,
2.make predictions for each tree created in the first phase

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Steps
1. Select a subset of data points and a subset of features for constructing each 
decision tree. Simply put, n random records and m features are taken from 
the data set having k number of records.
2.Construct individual decision trees for each sample (subset)
3.Find the predictions of each decision tree for a new a data point(instance ).  
4.Final output is considered based onMajority Voting or Averagingfor 
Classification and regression, respectively.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Example: Consider the fruit basket as the data as shown in 
the figure below. Now n number of samples are taken from the 
fruit basket, and an individual decision tree is constructed for 
each sample. Each decision tree will generate an output, as 
shown in the figure. The final output is considered based on 
majority voting.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Example:

Key Features of Random Forest(Advantages )
1.Diversity: Not all attributes/variables/features are considered while 
making an individual tree; each tree is different.
2.Immune to the curse of dimensionality: Since each tree does not 
consider all the features, the feature space is reduced.
3.Parallelization: Each tree is created independently out of different data 
and attributes. This means we can fully use the CPU to build random 
forests.

Key Features of Random Forest(Advantages )
4.Stability/High Predictive Accuracy:: Stability arises because the 
result is based on majority voting/ averaging.
5.Resistance to Overfitting: Since each decision tree randomly 
selected data set for training, this prevents getting too caught up 
with the training data which makes the model less prone to 
overfitting.
6. Large Datasets Handling: As a team of decision trees is involved 
in decision making, each tree takes on a part of the dataset, 
ensuring that the expedition is not only thorough but also 
surprisingly quick.

Disadvantages of Random Forest
•Although random forest can be used for both 
classification and regression tasks, it is not more 
suitable for Regression tasks.

Decision Tree vs Random Forest

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Predictive 
•max_features: Maximum number of features random forest 
considers splitting a node.
•mini_sample_leaf: Determines the minimum number of leaves 
required to split an internal node.
•criterion: How to split the node in each tree? (Entropy/Gini 
impurity/Log Loss)
• max_leaf_nodes: Maximum leaf nodes in each tree

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Speed.
•n_jobs: it tells the engine how many processors it is allowed to 
use. If the value is 1, it can use only one processor, but if the 
value is -1, there is no limit.
• random_state: controls randomness of the sample. The model 
will always produce the same results if it has a definite value 
of random state and has been given the same 
hyperparameters and training data.

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Speed.
•oob_score: OOB means out of the bag. It is a random forest 
cross-validation method. In this, one-third of the sample is not 
used to train the data; instead used to evaluate its 
performance. These samples are called out-of-bag samples.

Applications of Random Forest
•Banking: Banking sector mostly uses this algorithm for the 
identification of loan risk.
•Medicine: With the help of this algorithm, disease trends and 
risks of the disease can be identified.
•Land Use: We can identify the areas of similar land use by this 
algorithm.
•Marketing: Marketing trends can be identified using this 
algorithm.

Python Implementation of Random Forest Algorithm