

Random Forest Algorithm
A powerful tree learning technique inMachine Learning.

Random Forest Algorithm
•Random Forest is a popular machine learning algorithm that 
belongs to the supervised learning technique. 
•It can be used for both Classification and Regression problems 
in ML. 
•It is based on the concept of ensemble learning, which is a 
process of combining multiple classifiers to solve a complex 
problem and to improve the performance of the model.

Random Forest Algorithm
•Random Forest  works by creating a number of Decision Trees 
during the training phase. 
•Each tree is constructed using a random subset of the data set to 
measure a random subset of features in each partition. 
• This randomness introduces variability among individual trees, 
reducing the risk of overfitting and improving overall prediction 
performance. 

Random Forest Algorithm
• In prediction phase, the algorithm aggregates the results of all trees, 
either by voting (for classification tasks) or by averaging (for regression 
tasks). 
• 
This collaborative decision-
making process, supported by 
multiple trees with their 
insights, provides an example 
stable and precise results

What are Ensemble Learning models?
•In ensemble learning, different models, often of the same type or different 
types, team up to enhance predictive performance. 
•Ensemble learning models work just like a group of diverse experts teaming up 
to make decisions
•It’s all about leveraging the collective wisdom of the group to overcome 
individual limitations and make more informed decisions in various machine 
learning tasks. 
•Some popular ensemble models include-XGBoost,AdaBoost,LightGBM, 
Random Forest,Bagging,Votingetc.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Random Forest works in two-phases
1.create the random forest by combining N decision tree,
2.make predictions for each tree created in the first phase

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Steps
1. Select a subset of data points and a subset of features for constructing each 
decision tree. Simply put, n random records and m features are taken from 
the data set having k number of records.
2.Construct individual decision trees for each sample (subset)
3.Find the predictions of each decision tree for a new a data point(instance ).  
4.Final output is considered based onMajority Voting or Averagingfor 
Classification and regression, respectively.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Example: Consider the fruit basket as the data as shown in 
the figure below. Now n number of samples are taken from the 
fruit basket, and an individual decision tree is constructed for 
each sample. Each decision tree will generate an output, as 
shown in the figure. The final output is considered based on 
majority voting.

How Does Random Forest Work?
•Example:

Key Features of Random Forest(Advantages )
1.Diversity: Not all attributes/variables/features are considered while 
making an individual tree; each tree is different.
2.Immune to the curse of dimensionality: Since each tree does not 
consider all the features, the feature space is reduced.
3.Parallelization: Each tree is created independently out of different data 
and attributes. This means we can fully use the CPU to build random 
forests.

Key Features of Random Forest(Advantages )
4.Stability/High Predictive Accuracy:: Stability arises because the 
result is based on majority voting/ averaging.
5.Resistance to Overfitting: Since each decision tree randomly 
selected data set for training, this prevents getting too caught up 
with the training data which makes the model less prone to 
overfitting.
6. Large Datasets Handling: As a team of decision trees is involved 
in decision making, each tree takes on a part of the dataset, 
ensuring that the expedition is not only thorough but also 
surprisingly quick.

Disadvantages of Random Forest
•Although random forest can be used for both 
classification and regression tasks, it is not more 
suitable for Regression tasks.

Decision Tree vs Random Forest

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Predictive 
•max_features: Maximum number of features random forest 
considers splitting a node.
•mini_sample_leaf: Determines the minimum number of leaves 
required to split an internal node.
•criterion: How to split the node in each tree? (Entropy/Gini 
impurity/Log Loss)
• max_leaf_nodes: Maximum leaf nodes in each tree

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Speed.
•n_jobs: it tells the engine how many processors it is allowed to 
use. If the value is 1, it can use only one processor, but if the 
value is -1, there is no limit.
• random_state: controls randomness of the sample. The model 
will always produce the same results if it has a definite value 
of random state and has been given the same 
hyperparameters and training data.

Important Hyperparameters in Random Forest
Hyperparameters to Increase the Speed.
•oob_score: OOB means out of the bag. It is a random forest 
cross-validation method. In this, one-third of the sample is not 
used to train the data; instead used to evaluate its 
performance. These samples are called out-of-bag samples.

Applications of Random Forest
•Banking: Banking sector mostly uses this algorithm for the 
identification of loan risk.
•Medicine: With the help of this algorithm, disease trends and 
risks of the disease can be identified.
•Land Use: We can identify the areas of similar land use by this 
algorithm.
•Marketing: Marketing trends can be identified using this 
algorithm.

Python Implementation of Random Forest Algorithm



See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/362098079
A Detailed Analysis of the Critical Role of artificial intelligence in Enabling
High-Performance Cloud Computing Systems
Conference Paper · April 2022
DOI: 10.1109/ICACITE53722.2022.9823679
CITATIONS
32
READS
505
6 authors, including:
Shahanawaj Ahamad
University of Ha'il
94 PUBLICATIONS   464 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Milad Mohseni
Islamic Azad University of Tabriz
29 PUBLICATIONS   161 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Ghassan Fadhil Smaisim
University Of Kufa
130 PUBLICATIONS   2,482 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Amrendra Tripathi
University of Petroleum and Energy Studies
27 PUBLICATIONS   472 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Shahanawaj Ahamad on 30 July 2022.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

 
 
A Detailed Analysis of the Critical Role of artificial   
intelligence in Enabling High-Performance Cloud 
Computing Systems
Shahanawaj Ahamad
1
1
College of Computer Science and 
Engineering, University of Hail, Saudi 
Arabia
drshahwj@gmail.com
Milad Mohseni
2
2
degree in Computer Architecture, 
Computer, Islamic Azad University 
(IAU), Tabriz, Iran
stu.m.mohseni@iaut.ac.ir
Orchid: 0000-0002-5773-0077
Vineet Shekher
3*
3
Associate Professor, Electrical 
Engineering Department, BIT Sindri, 
Dhanbad, India.
vineet.ee@bitsindri.ac.in
Ghassan Fadhil Smaisim
4
4
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Fa
culty of Engineering, 
University of Kufa, Iraq
Nanotechnology and Advanced 
Materials Research Unit (NAMRU), 
Faculty of Engineering, University of 
Kufa, Iraq
Ghassan.Smaisim@uokufa.edu.iq
Amrendra Tripathi
5
5
Assistant professor (Senior scale)
School of computer science, UPES, 
Dehradun
tripathiamrendra@gmail.com
Orchid id 0000-0002-2350-4012
Joel Alanya-Beltran
6
Professor, Electronic Department
Universidad Tecnológica del Perú
C18121@utp.edu.pe
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8058-6229
Abstract-Cloud  computing  reflects  effective  delivery  of  
computing   services   such   as   software,   storage   purposes,   
analytics,  intelligence  and  many  others.  Besides  that,  it  also  
offers faster innovation and at the same time flexible resources. 
In  an  organisation,  a  cloud  computing  system  provides  tight  
security   of   data   with   a   low   maintenance   cost.   A   huge   
collaboration   has   been   seen   between   various   industries   
through  cloud  systems.  Those  all  processes  have  been  boosted  
up  by  the  implementation  of  AI.  Incorporation  of  AI  by  those  
industries   hugely   influences   the   efficiency   rate   of   cloud   
computing  techniques  and  due  to  this  reason,  the  combined  
effect  of  those  two  technologies  brings  up  huge  profitability  to  
those   organisations.   Implementation   of   machine   learning   
models,    as    well    as    cognitive    computing,    increases    the    
performance  of  cloud  systems.  In  addition  to  this,  a  lot  of  
benefits  have  been  seen  when  organisations  incorporate  AI  in  
cloud computing techniques. 
This paper contains a detailed introduction part along with 
a  well  informative  literature  review.  A  research  methodology  
also  has  been  provided  where  three  research  questions  are  
mentioned.
The   data   analysis   part   comprises   a   multi   regression   
analysis   where   the   independent   variables   are   years   and   
percentage   of   usage   of   AI   in   various   organisations.   The   
dependent  variable  is  profitability.  A  critical  discussion  part  
also   has   been   presented   and   a   conclusion   has   also   been   
provided with a few recommendations. 
Keywords-   Artificial   intelligence,   cloud   computing,   multi   
regression  analysis,  machine  learning  techniques,  data  security,  
cost-effectiveness, cognitive computing technique
I. INTRODUCTION
Artificial  Intelligence  defines  some  special  and  unique  
ability   of   any   computer   that   is   controlled   by   another   
computer  to  effectively  perform  several  important  tasks.  
Artificial  intelligence  highly  requires  human  intelligence  
such  as  visual  perception,  recognition  of  speech,  making  of  
decisions  and  many  others  [1].  In  recent  days  this  system
utilises  in  various  important  sectors  such  as  monitoring  of  
social  networking  sites,  investigation  of  financial  processes,  
healthcare  management  and  many  others.  This  intelligence  
system  also  plays  a  significant  role  in  ensuring  the  high  
performance of cloud computing systems. On the other hand, 
cloud  computing  reflects  the  delivery  of  various  kinds  of  
services  by  using  internet  systems.  This  technology  has  a  
wide range of resources such as various databases, software, 
servers  and  many  others.  Through  this  cloud  computing  
technology,  those  resources  can  be  easily  utilised  and  a  
detailed  view  of  software  can  also  be  gained  easily  through  
this process. Data backup process, development of software, 
analysis of big data is some of the important things that can 
easily  be  handled  through  this  technology.  This  research  
paper is going to be explored a transparent evaluation of the 
role  of  artificial  intelligence  that  helps  develop  high  cloud  
computing  systems  through  using  multi  regression  analysis.  
The   multi   regression   analysis   technique   is   a   specific   
statistical analysis tool that can be utilised for evaluating the 
relationship   between   several   dependent   and   independent   
variables  [2].  In  this  paper,  artificial  intelligence  and  cloud  
computing  systems  can  be  considered  as  two  important  
variables  and  those  two  tools  can  be  effectively  analysed  
through this technique. Artificial intelligence (AI) supported 
cloud   systems   utilises   various   data   and   based   on   that   
information,    it    makes    predictions.    Various    important    
problems  can  be  easily  solved  before  noticing  by  the  users.  
Some importance of AI-based technology that benefits cloud 
computing is given in the following. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
According to Holzinger artificial intelligence is probably 
the  oldest  technology  in  the  domain  of  computer  science.  It  
was forecasted that almost ninety per cent of the organisation 
would  employ  AI  in  their  business  initiative.  It  is  also  
forecasted  at  the  same  time  that  those  organisations  would  
also incorporate AI in their cloud system. It is predicted that 
around  seventy  per  cent  of  the  organisations  would  import  
their  data  through  effective  employment  of  tools.  The  data  
2022 2nd International Conference on Advance Computing and Innovative Technologies in Engineering (ICACITE)
978-1-6654-3789-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
156

 
 
shows   that   around   sixty-five   per   cent   would   start   to   
formulate applications in this particular scenario. Even in the 
domain  of  2021,  individuals  believe  that  AI  is  an  apparatus  
for  the  future.  Almost  all  the  individuals  with  a  smartphone  
in  their  hand  tend  to  employ  cloud  computing  extensively.  
The  effectiveness  of  AI  tends  to  go  unnoticed  as  it  plays  a  
major role in the statistical prediction in a particular scenario. 
Cloud   computing   features   such   as   dynamic,   regulated   
sharing of data pools of computational services have enabled 
the  technology  development  and  frameworks  to  meet  the  
needs of growing applications such as smart cities, scientific 
research,    agriculture,    healthcare,as    well    astraffic    
management.  However,  it  is  important  to  comprehend  the  
correlation between cloud and AI can vehemently transform 
the   pattern   on   which   an   organisation   operates   in   their   
business  scenario.  It  can  maximise  the  efficiency  into  ten  
folds.  Different  types  of  technological  advancement  can  
occur  due  to  the  efficient  marriage  of  AI  and  clouds.  The  
core   technologies   for   employing   cloud   computing   are   
distributed  computing,  internet  tools,  system  administrative  
technologies  and  hardware  technologies.  It  can  effectively  
revolutionise  the  functioning  of  the  business.  It  enables  the  
organisation  to  tap  into  machine  learning  assets  assimilated  
with  the  smart  cloud.  It  can  be  compartmentalised  into  two  
distinct   categories.   They   are   Cloud   AI   initiatives   and   
Machine  learning  programmes.  This  robust  collaboration  
effectively  provides  the  organisation  with  a  more  assertive,  
well-organised  and  unlimited  database  to  store  the  big  data  
and     employ     them     systematically.     Additionally,     the     
assimilation between AI and cloud computing influences the 
initiatives  as  it  systematically  helps  to  manage  automatic  
transaction   recognition,   anomaly   optimisation,   allocation   
identification,  predictive  emulation,  aggressive  development  
and   many   others.   Multiple   regression   examination   and   
analysis   plays   a   key   role   to   predict   the   influence   of   
employing  cloud  computing  for  different  organisations.  It  is  
basically  a  technique  that  assists  to  analyse  the  correlation  
between a single determinant and multiple determinants. The 
core aim of the multiple regression is to analyse the value of 
a  single  variant.  It  can  effectively  predict  the  influence  of  
cloud computing in an organisation. 
Figure 1: Techniques of AI
(Source: [4])
According  to  Malik  Cloud  computing  is  regarded  as  the  
technology  that  will  shape  the  future  efficiently.  He  also  
provided  a  broad  perspective  on  cloud  computing  while  
shedding a light on the technologies associated with it. It also 
illuminated  virtualisation  in  the  journal.  Cloud  computing  is  
basically a terminology that has become vehemently popular 
in the last decade. It generally enables individuals to tap into 
all the attributes of the said system while cancelling the bulk 
into  the  core  system.  Numerous people  tend  to  employ  this  
cloud computing technology without even comprehending it. 
This  technology  enables  individuals  to  store  their  personal  
information   in   a   “cloud-hosted   server”   that   efficiently   
stockpile  the  data  for  future  usage.  It  plays  a  vital  role  in  
different  kinds  of  initiatives  as  it  helps  organisations  to  
manage  a  large  amount  of  data.  It  has  multiple  benefits.  It  
vehemently  minimises  the  expenditure  spent  on  information  
technology.  It  includes  minimisation  of  the  cost  of  system  
manipulation [5]. It also tends to maximise the scalability of 
the  initiatives.  It  effectively  frees  up  time  consumption.  It  
assists  to  run  the  business  effectively.  It  also  assists  in  
business  continuity.  It  includes  natural  disasters  and  other  
unwanted  scenarios.  It  tends  to  maximise  the  collaboration  
efficacy   as   it   provides   the   opportunity   to   communicate   
efficiently   and   put   forward   the   box   idea.   It   provides   
flexibility   in   the   working   scenarios.   It   provides   the   
opportunity for gaining automatic updates. Cloud computing 
has  become  a  significant  resource  across  many  parts  of  
society, including academics, government, and business, as a 
result of its fast expansion. Cloud computing features include 
dynamic,  regulated  access  to  pooled  pools  of  computer  
resources.   Sensors   and   actuators,   as   well   as   other   IoT   
elements, interface with the gateway, which is all networked 
through 5G networks. The users can interact with the model 
using  an  app  application  on  the  access  point,  which  uses  
Bitcoin   (or   an   equivalent   cryptocurrency)   software   to   
estimate  costs.  Cloud  computing  is  a  new  paradigm  that  
allows  for  on-demand,  regulated  access  to  computational  
capacity,   allowing   for   technological   advancement   and   
geographically dispersed applications.
Figure 2. Conceptual model for Cloud Futurology
(Source: [6])
According   to   Zhou,   cloud   computing   is   vehemently   
promoted by the business giants such as google, amazon and 
other   organisations.   The   data   from   Statista   effectively   
demonstrates  that  the  worth  of  the  AI  market  would  cross  
ninety  billion  by  2026.  It  is  not  a  secret  cloud  computing  
acts  as  a  tool  to  maximise  the  scope  and  influence  in  the  
broader scenario. For example, Google is a brand that tends 
to  utilise  cloud  systems  effectively  in  the  IT  industry  to  
maximise  its  innovation.  AI  is  effectively  incorporated  into  
the   grain   of   IT.   It   assists   to   manage   tasks.   Effective   
Machine 
Learning
Automation
NLP 
Techniques
High 
Perforance 
Cloud 
Computing
Broad 
Network
Enhanced 
Service
Resource 
pooling 
Focused 
Elasticity
2022 2nd International Conference on Advance Computing and Innovative Technologies in Engineering (ICACITE)
157

 
 
employment  of  AI  in  the  cloud  system  assists  google  to  
maximise   its   analytical   attributes.   It   also   assists   in   
administering the routine processes by the system. It enables 
the  team  associated  with  google  to  monitor  the  potency  of  
the cloud. AI also enables google to raise the quality of data 
management with the effective help of AI [6]. AI tools such 
as    the    Google    cloud    platform    assists    the    team    to    
comprehend    the    way    information    is    updated    and    
administered.  It  enables  Google  to  provide  more  accurate  
real-life information. It also minimises the risk of fraudulent 
pursuit.  It  also  can  influence  vehemently  in  certain  spheres  
such  as  consumer  service,  information  regarding  supply  
chain  and  many  others.  GCP  put  forward  Iaas,  PaaS  and  
SaaS  to  the  different  organisations  operating  in  different  
domains.  GCP  is  basically  a  service  for  constructing  and  
manoeuvring  applications  that  can  be  issued  from  is  HDC.  
Google cloud made around 13 billion U.S. dollars and it is a 
testament  to  the  potency  of  the  organisation  to  employ  AI  
effectively in the cloud system. As the revenue of the google 
cloud  is  expanding  unfathomably,  it  can  be  said  that  many  
an  organisation  is  adopting  this  system  at  a  significant  rate
[7].
AI as a service is evolving vehemently the way organisation 
is  employing  tools  and  technology.  Organisations  such  as  
amazon  utilise  the  cloud-based  retail  website.  It  enables  
different  brands  to  vend  their  product  effectively.    It  also  
employs  pricing  attributes  that  tend  to  reshuffle  the  pricing  
on  a  given  product  as  per  the  market  demand  and  the  
activity   of   competitor   brands.   The   AI-powered   module   
enables  the  organisation  to  efficiently  to  optimise  the  price  
of the product efficiently. Effective employment AI enables 
the organisation to make proper market analysis and put into 
the    initiative    to    maintain    the    sustainability    of    the    
organisation. 
AI and cloud computing are revolutionising the initiative at 
every   level.   Cloud   computing   is   basically   an   efficient   
breakthrough  tool  in  the  domain  of  IT.  It  provides  a  long  
range  of  advantages  for  the  organisation  and  as  well  as  for  
the consumers. Despite the advantages, it has some potential 
challenges   such   as   data   breaches.   Multiple   regression   
examination  and  analysis  plays  a  key  role  to  predict  the  
influence   of   employing   cloud   computing   for   different   
organisations. 
III. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
This  study  was  totally  evaluated  through  a  quantitative  
research  approach.  The  multi  regression  analysis  has  been  
done  by  using  the  SPSS  tool.  According  to  this  statistical  
method,  three  different  variables  are  chosen.  This  topic  is  
based on the influence of AI in cloud computing as well as 
the effectiveness of AI enabling the wide-range performance 
of  cloud  computing.  Due  to  this  reason,  two  independent  
variables  have  been  chosen.  The  first  one  is  a  year  and  the  
second  type  is  the  percentage  of  usage  of  AI technology  in  
various  companies  for  increasing  the  performance  of  cloud  
computing. An independent variable has also been taken and 
that  is  the  respective  profit  percentage  of  those  companies.  
The  usage  of  AI  actually  increases  the  profitability  of  
various companies and the evidence of profitability has been 
thoroughly discussed in the discussion part. 
In large and medium-sized data centers, not only the power 
of  computer  hardware  such  as  servers  is  used,  but  also  the  
power  of  additional  equipment  such  as  air  conditioners.  In  
general,   the   power   consumption   of   the   calculator   is   
approximately  the  same  as  the  power  consumption  of  other  
support  devices.  In  other  words,  if  the  power  consumption  
of  computer  hardware  in  the  data  is  1,  then  the  power  
consumption of the entire data center is 2. In some cases the 
data  is  very  good  with  a  certain  durability.  technology,  
electricity  consumption  can  reach  a  high  level.  1.7.  ,  but  
Google  pushed  other  files  up  to  1.2  industry  leading  for  
well-designed  templates.  A  special  feature  of  this  design  is  
the  temperature  of  the  data  center,  which  means  that  the  
material is included in the operating temperature of the data 
center.
Virtualization  technology  is  the  most  important  technology  
for   cloud   computing,   authentication   and   integration   of   
physical  resources.  The  use  of  this  technology  can  improve  
the  use  of  physical  therapy  equipment,  depending  on  user  
needs,  flexible  and  fast  configuration  and  transportation.  
Virtualization   technology   is   completely   different   from   
multitasking and hyperthreading technology. Computers are 
an   important   part   of   people's   lives.   With   computer   
development,  important  data  is  created  and  waiting  to  be  
completed;  We  would  have  benefited  more  if  this  had  been  
done  properly,  otherwise  we  would  have  seen  the  data  
broken, the data was just a waste. This study enhances other 
research     activities     and     promotes     conclusions     and     
implementation    using    the    PRISMA    approach.    The    
development    of    computer    science    will    support    the    
development  of  the  organization.  Consideration  is  given  to  
choosing the right and appropriate equipment, including our 
business. Existing data performance is the largest computer, 
grid computer, group computer and cloud computing.
The   good   old   ways   are   always   bad   for   the   business   
environment   which   has   been   replaced   by   the   latest   
technology.  The  strategy  to  improve  the  path  needs  to  be  
explored  in  order  to  have  a  global  impact  on  the  world  of  
intellect,     innovation     and     intellectual     property.     E-
Government in Dubai thrives on the best information in the
industry,   government   support   for   innovation,   financial   
adequacy  and  e-government  participation  of  people  and  
businesses. Fake Spy is said to play an important role in the 
mobile  business  because  it  creates  user  profiles  and  meets  
their   needs   based   on   their   needs   and   preferences.   In   
addition,  the  AI  team  works  by  identifying  and  predicting  
shortcomings,  providing  a  quick  solution.  Also,  AI  can  
communicate  with  users,  for  example  TOBi  is  a  chatbot  
developed  by  Vodafone  to  help  customers  answer  online  
questions  and  support  solutions,  which  makes  users'  stuff  
supported.
IV. DISCUSSION AS WELL AS FINDINGS
The  first  research  question  is  based  on  the  process  of  
enhancing  the  profitability  of  various  organisations  through  
the   incorporation   of   AI   in   cloud   computing   systems.   
Through  using  AI  various  IT  organisations  reshape  their  
structure  totally.  In  recent  days  a  huge  level  of  competition  
exists  between  several  IT  industries  and  to  make  a  better  
competitive advantage those industries implement AI-based 
2022 2nd International Conference on Advance Computing and Innovative Technologies in Engineering (ICACITE)
158

 
 
computing  platforms  and  incorporate  those  platforms  in  
their  cloud  systems  to  better  optimize  their  resources  [9].  
Access   to   unlimited   data   as   well   as   making   effective   
decisions from those datasets can be effectively done by the 
AI  process.  A  business  organisation  required  some  well-
trained analysts whereas AI effectively manage this analysis 
and can also give better analysis result. Thus, incorporation 
of  AI  in  cloud  computing  increases  the  advantage  of  those  
industries  in  the  field  of  the  competitive  market.  Various
statistical data reflects 81% of leaders are planning to invest 
huge capital for the incorporation of AI. The adoption of AI 
in    several    industries    enhances    automation    of    digital    
marketing,  CRM  and  at  the  same  time  effective  analysis  of  
big data [10]. 
The  second  research  question  is  based  on  the  process  of  
enhancement  of  data  security  through  using  AI  song  with  
cloud    computing.    Business    organisations    incorporate    
various  works  in  their  personalised  cloud.  Due  to  this  
reason,  the  information  must  be  kept  safe  always.  The  
management  of  IT  and  other  business  organisation  can  use  
AI-powered   network   security   technologies   for   tracking   
network    traffic    [11].    Thus,    those    organisations    can    
effectively   prevent   damage   to   that   critical   information.   
Amazon  GuardDuty  can  be  considered  an  important  threat  
detection  technology.  Maintenance  of  data  privacy  is  also  
another  important  area  that  can  be  immensely  managed  
through  using  artificial  intelligence  techniques  along  with  
cloud systems. 
After  that,  the  third  research  question  sheds  light  on  the  
processes   through   which   AI   can   enhance   the   cloud   
computing    system.    There    are    three    types    of    cloud    
development  services  and  three  various  kinds  of  cloud  
deployment   processes.   Private   cloud,   public   cloud   and   
hybrid  cloud  are  three  different  types  of  cloud  processes.  
Through  the  help  of  AI  infrastructure,  an  organisation  can  
create  models  of  machine  learning  where  a  broad  range  of  
data is applied to definite algorithms and thugs it enables the 
performance  of  cloud  services  by  improving  data  accuracy  
[12].   In   addition   to   machine   languages,   the   cognitive   
computing   technique   also   allows   users   to   deliver   their   
personal  information.  This  model  can  effectively  eliminate  
the correct training model as well as the usage of the proper 
algorithm model. A lot of benefits can be seen in the case of 
the usage of AI that also enhances the performance of cloud 
systems in various organisations. Some of those benefits are 
mentioned  in  the  following.  The  development  of  cloud  
applications through using AI diminishes the requirement of 
various  hardware  and  software  purchases.  Besides  that,  it  
can  also  eliminate  the  requirement  of  onsite  data  centres.  
Thus, cost-effectiveness is influenced through AI. As cloud 
computing  is  based  on  the  total  internet  of  things  AI  boost  
up   this   technology   and   overall   productivity   has   been   
increased [13].
In  the  data  analysis  part,  a  statistical  analysis  has  occurred  
where  multi  regression  analysis  has  been  done.  In  this  
analysis, a histogram chart, as well as a scatterplot, has also 
been figured out. In that area, three things have been chosen 
for  variables  and  those  are  profitability,  percentage  of  AI  
usage  in  industries  and  the  last  one  is  years.  Through  this  
analysis,  a  significant  value  reflects  .001  that  defines  the  
regression model that has been figured out as a good fit for 
the information that is used to create this analysis. 
V. CONCLUSION
After evaluation of the whole paper, it can be concluded that 
there  is  a  huge  need  for  the  implementation  of  artificial  
intelligence  in  the  cloud  computing  processes  as  it  can  
create a significant level of benefits in various organisations. 
To  create  a  wide  range  of  competitive  advantages  it  is  
important to implement AI in various business organisations 
to  smoothen  their  production  processes.  Apart  from  that,  to  
protect  big  data  as  well  as  analysis  of  those  data  AI  and  
cloud  computing  both  processes  have  a  huge  significance.  
AI  effectively  manages  and  analyses  big  data  whereas  the  
cloud  process  maximises  the  security  of  those  data.  There
are various machine learning tools and cognitive computing 
techniques   through   which   one   can   easily   increase   the   
performance   of   big   data.   In   addition   to   this   cost-
effectiveness  can  also  be  increased  as  there  is  less  need  for  
maintenance costs and online data centres. At last, it can be 
stated   that   AI   has   a   huge   influence   on   increasing   the   
performance  of  cloud  computing  that  also  assist  in  the  
enhancement of profitability of an organisation.
REFERENCES:
[1] Gill, S.S., Tuli, S., Xu, M., Singh, I.,  Singh,  K.V.,  Lindsay,  D.,  Tuli,  
S.,   Smirnova,   D.,   Singh,   M.,   Jain,   U.   and   Pervaiz,   H.,   2019.   
Transformative  effects  of  IoT,  Blockchain  and  Artificial  Intelligence  
on    cloud    computing:    Evolution,    vision,    trends    and    open    
challenges. Internet of Things, 8, p.100118.
[2] Ong,   M.H.A.   and   Puteh,   F.,   2017.   Quantitative   data   analysis:   
Choosing   between   SPSS,   PLS,   and   AMOS   in   social   science   
research. International     Interdisciplinary     Journal     of     Scientific     
Research, 3(1), pp.14-25.
[3] Tadapaneni,   N.R.,   2018.   Cloud   Computing:   Opportunities   And   
Challenges. Available at SSRN 3563342.
[4] Holzinger,  A.,  Langs,  G.,  Denk,  H.,  Zatloukal,  K.  and  Müller,  H.,  
2019.   Causability   and   explainability   of   artificial   intelligence   in   
medicine. Wiley    Interdisciplinary    Reviews:    Data    Mining    and
Knowledge Discovery, 9(4), p.e1312.
[5] Malik,    M.I.,    Wani,    S.H.    and    Rashid,    A.,    2018.    CLOUD    
COMPUTING-TECHNOLOGIES. International Journal of Advanced 
Research in Computer Science, 9(2).
[6] Zhou,  Y.,  Zhang,  D.  and  Xiong,  N.,  2017.  Post-cloud  computing  
paradigms:    a    survey    and    comparison. Tsinghua    Science    and    
Technology, 22(6), pp.714-732.
[7] Alam,  T.,  2021.  Cloud  Computing  and  its  role  in  the  Information  
Technology. IAIC  Transactions  on  Sustainable  Digital  Innovation  
(ITSDI), 1, pp.108-115.
[8] Statista.com,  (2021).  Google  Cloud  -  Statistics  &Facts.Available  
at:https://www.statista.com/topics/8048/google-
cloud/#dossierKeyfigures[ Accessed on : 20th December, 2021]
[9] Yoo,  S.K.  and  Kim,  B.Y.,  2018.  A  decision-making  model  for  
adopting a cloud computing system. Sustainability, 10(8), p.2952.
[10] Nguyen,  K.K.,  Hoang,  D.T.,  Niyato,  D.,  Wang,  P.,  Nguyen,  D.  and  
Dutkiewicz,  E.,  2018,  April.  Cyberattack  detection  in  mobile  cloud  
computing:   A   deep   learning   approach.   In 2018   IEEE   wireless   
communications   and   networking   conference   (WCNC) (pp.   1-6).   
IEEE.
[11] Sun,  W.,  Liu,  J.  and  Yue,  Y.,  2019.  AI-enhanced  offloading  in  edge  
computing:   When   machine   learning   meets   industrial   IoT. IEEE   
Network, 33(5), pp.68-74.
[12] Surya,    L.,    2018.    Streamlining    Cloud    Applicationwith    AI    
Technology. International   Journal   of   Innovations   in   Engineering   
Research and Technology [IJIERT] ISSN, pp.2394-3696.
[13] Soni,  N.,  Sharma,  E.K.,  Singh,  N.  and  Kapoor,  A.,  2020.  Artificial  
intelligence  in  business:  From  research  and  innovation  to  market  
deployment. Procedia Computer Science, 167, pp.2200-2210.
2022 2nd International Conference on Advance Computing and Innovative Technologies in Engineering (ICACITE)
159
View publication stats

